.TH VIEWMAP 6 "Magic Mapper" "Ragnarok MUD"
'\"
'\" RAGNAROK MAGIC MAPPER DOCUMENTATION:
'\" $Header$
'\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2010 by Steven L. Willoughby, Aloha, Oregon, USA.
.\" All Rights Reserved.  Licensed under the Open Software License
.\" version 3.0.  See http://www.opensource.org/licenses/osl-3.0.php
'\" for details.
'\"
'\" Based on earlier code from the Ragnarok MudShell (MSH) client,
'\" Copyright (c) 1993, 2000, 2001, 2002, 2003 by Steven L. Willoughby,
'\" Aloha, Oregon, USA.  All Rights Reserved.  MSH is licensed under
'\" the terms of the GNU General Public License (GPL) version 2.
'\"
'\" This product is provided for educational, experimental or personal
'\" interest use, in accordance with the terms and conditions of the
'\" aforementioned license agreement, ON AN "AS IS" BASIS AND WITHOUT
'\" WARRANTY, EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION,
'\" THE WARRANTIES OF NON-INFRINGEMENT, MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A
'\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY OF THE ORIGINAL
'\" WORK IS WITH YOU.  (See the license agreement for full details,
'\" including disclaimer of warranty and limitation of liability.)
'\"
'\" Under no curcumstances is this product intended to be used where the
'\" safety of any person, animal, or property depends upon, or is at
'\" risk of any kind from, the correct operation of this software.
'\"
.SH NAME
viewmap \- Preview Magic Map source files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B viewmap
.RB [ \-gir ]
.RB [ \-p
.IR pattern ]
.IR mapfiles ...
.LP
.B "viewmap --help"
.LP
.B "viewmap --version"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
When composing magic map files, a Ragnarok wizard may wish to preview the
map (entirely or by specific room) by loading the individual map source
file(s) into the
.B viewmap
program.
.LP
This will render the map on-screen just like the
.BR magicmapper (6)
program does, but it reads the
.I source
(a.k.a. \*(lq.map\*(rq) files directly, rather than the pre-processed
form that is served to the player client programs such as
.BR magicmapper .
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
The following options may be specified at the command-line to control the
operation of the program.  In cases where a short form of the option
is provided (e.g., 
.RB \*(lq \-v ,\*(rq)
it may be combined with other short options in a single argument (i.e.,
either
.RB \*(lq \-vi \*(rq
or
.RB \*(lq \-v
.BR \-i \*(rq
are equivalent), and any value which is supposed to be given for the
option follows it as a separate argument
.RB (\*(lq \-p
.IR pattern \*(rq)
or as the remaining text after the option
.RB (\*(lq \-p\fIpattern\fP \*(rq).
In the case of long option names, they must be given separately from 
each other, although values may be given as, for example,
.RB \*(lq \-\-pattern=\fIpattern\fP \*(rq
or
.RB \*(lq \-\-pattern
.IR pattern \*(rq.
.TP
.BR \-g " / " \-\-expand\-globs
Any wildcard patterns in the
.I mapfiles
specified on the command line are expanded in the usual fashion for the
operating system.  You probably won't need this on Unix*/Linux*
or Macintosh* OSX* systems, since this expansion happens automatically
by the shell, except in some special circumstances, but you would
probably need this on Microsoft* Windows* systems.  Generally this means that:
.RS
.TP
.B *
matches any sequence of zero or more characters,
.TP
.B ?
matches a single character, and
.TP
.BI [ abc ]
matches a single character which may be 
.BR a ,
.BR b ,
or
.BR c .
.RE
.TP
.BR \-h " / " \-\-help
Print a summary of these options and exit.
.TP
.BR \-i " / " \-\-ignore\-errors
Normally, any
.I mapfile
which contains an error (as in, a problem with the legality of the map file
contents, not simply that it does not appear as intended) will halt the
process with an error message.  With this option,
.B viewmap
will continue and make its best effort to render the rest of the map data
anyway, and display what it can.
.TP
.BI "\-p " pattern " \fR/\fP \-\-pattern=" pattern
When recursing (via the
.B \-r
option), only read files matching the shell wildcard
.I pattern
specified here.  This is 
.RB \*(lq *.map \*(rq
by default.
.TP
.BR \-r " / " \-\-recursive
Recurse into each directory named in the
.I mapfile
list, looking for and processing every file found which matches the
pattern
.RB \*(lq *.map \*(rq
(unless changed by the
.B \-p
option).
.TP
.B \-\-version
Print the program's version number and exit.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP
.BR magicmap (5),
.BR magicmapper (6).
.SH VERSION
.LP
This document describes version 6 (V6) of the Ragnarok Magic Map system.  The
version numbers of the various public tools are kept in sync with this major
revision number.  The tool version referenced here is 6.0.
.SH HISTORY
.LP
The
.B viewmap
command first appeared in version 6.0.
.SH NOTES
.LP
*Names of third-party products are the property of, and may be trademarks or registered
trademarks belonging to, their respective owners.
