.TH MAGICMAP-CONFIG 5 "Magic Mapper" "Ragnarok MUD" "File Formats"
'\"
'\" Ragnarok Magic Mapper Documentation
'\" Copyright © 2018 by Steven L. Willoughby, Aloha,
'\" Oregon, USA.  All Rights Reserved.  Licensed under the Open Software
'\" License version 3.0.
'\"
'\" Based on earlier code from the Ragnarok MudShell (MSH) client,
'\" Copyright (c) 1993, 2000, 2001, 2002, 2003 by Steven L. Willoughby,
'\" Aloha, Oregon, USA. All Rights Reserved.  MSH is licensed under
'\" the terms of the GNU Gneral Public License (GPL) version 2.
'\"
'\" This product is provided for educational, experimental or personal
'\" interest use, in accordance with the terms and conditions of the
'\" aforementioned license agreement, ON AN "AS IS" BASIS AND WITHOUT
'\" WARRANTY, EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION,
'\" THE WARRANTIES OF NON-INFRINGEMENT, MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A
'\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY OF THE ORIGINAL
'\" WORK IS WITH YOU.  (See the license agreement for full details, 
'\" including disclaimer of warranty and limitation of liability.)
'\"
'\" Under no curcumstances is this product intended to be used where the
'\" safety of any person, animal, or property depends upon, or is at
'\" risk of any kind from, the correct operation of this software.
'\" 
.SH NAME
magicmap-config \- Ragnarok Magic Mapper configuration file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ~/.MagicMapper/MagicMapper.ini
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The operation of the Magic Mapper client may be controlled by the values
placed in the configuration file described in this document. The mapper will
create this file with default values if one doesn't exist.
.LP
This document describes the file format for this file.  We will begin
by describing the general format and options, and then describe the
individual data elements which can appear in the file.
.SH "FORMAT OVERVIEW"
.SS Sections
.LP
The configuration file is organized into named \*(lqsections.\*(rq  
Each section describes a single area of concern for the operation of the
mapper tool.
.LP
Each section begins with a line containing the section name in square
brackets.  For example, the following line begins a section called 
\*(lqrendering\*(rq:
.RS
.B "[rendering]"
.RE
.SS "Data Fields"
.LP
Each section contains one or more named data fields which provide the 
data needed by that section.  Each field is defined on a line by itself,
using the format
.RS
.IB name :
.I value
.RE
or
.RS
.I name
.B =
.I value
.RE
.LP
Note that leading whitespace is stripped from the
.IR value ,
so it doesn't matter whether you put spaces around the colons or equals signs.
.LP
The field
.I name
is case-insensitive, and need only be unique within the section in which it
appears.
.SS "Supported Data Types"
.LP
The values defined in this file are generally character strings and may
contain any text characters.  However, where the following descriptions
mention other data types, the following rules apply:
.TP
.I bool
A Boolean (true/false) value may be written as 
.RB \*(lq 1 \*(rq,
.RB \*(lq yes \*(rq,
.RB \*(lq true \*(rq,
or
.RB \*(lq on \*(rq
to indicate a \*(lqtrue\*(rq value, or as
.RB \*(lq 0 \*(rq,
.RB \*(lq no \*(rq,
.RB \*(lq false \*(rq,
or
.RB \*(lq off \*(rq
to indicate a \*(lqfalse\*(rq value.  Any other value is not allowed and will
generate an error.  (The quotation marks are
.I not
typed in the data value.)
.TP
.I int
An integer value is written as a set of digits 0\-9, optionally preceded by
a plus or minus sign
.RB (\*(lq + \*(rq
or
.RB \*(lq \- \*(rq).
.TP
.I real
A real number value is written either as for 
.I int
values as described above, or as some digits, followed by a decimal
point
.RB (\*(lq . \*(rq),
followed by more digits.  Either (but not both) of the sets of digits may be 
omitted, so
.RB \*(lq 12 \*(rq,
.RB \*(lq \-12.25 \*(rq,
.RB \*(lq +12. \*(rq,
.RB \*(lq 0.3 \*(rq,
and
.RB \*(lq .3 \*(rq
are all valid real number values.
Additionally, numbers may be specified in scientific notation by adding
the letter 
.RB \*(lq e \*(rq
followed by an exponent of 10 to the end of the mantissa.  For example, the
value
.RB \*(lq 1.23e5 \*(rq
represents the real number 123000.0, and the value
.RB \*(lq 1.23e-5 \*(rq
represents the real number 0.0000123.
.SS "Splitting Long Lines"
.LP
Ordinarily, each data field is written on its own line, and takes up the entire line.  It must begin in the first column of its line.
However, a long data value may be split onto multiple lines of the file in
the same way RFC822 mail headers are: any indented line (i.e., a line beginning
with whitespace) is assumed to be a continuation of the line above it.  The
leading whitespace is stripped from the value, but the newline is kept intact.
.LP
For example, in the following field definition:
.RS
.B "description: This is a very long descriptive string"
.br
.B "\ \ \ \ involving two physical lines of the file"
.RE
would define the field called \*(lqdescription\*(rq to have the value:
.RS
This is a very long descriptive string
.br
involving two physical lines of the file
.RE
.SS "Variable Substitution"
.LP
Field definitions may contain the values of other fields using 
.IR printf -style
formatting controls.  Specifically, anywhere in a data field value where the
following pattern is found:
.RS
.BI %( name )s
.RE
This is replaced by the value of the data field called
.I name
defined in the same section, or in a special section called
.BR [DEFAULTS] .
The value being substituted does not need to have been defined 
above the line where it is being used.  The substitutions are 
performed at run-time, after the entire configuration file
has been read.
.LP
You can technically put anything between the 
.RB \*(lq ) \*(rq
and the
.RB \*(lq s \*(rq
that 
.BR printf (3)
would allow, but typically you'd use the pattern exactly as shown here.
Therefore, we won't go into more detail than that.  Advanced or exceedingly
curious users can look at the documentation for 
.B printf
for more details.
.SS Comments
.LP
Any line beginning with a semi-colon
.RB (\*(lq ; \*(rq)
or pound sign 
'\"(octothorpe, sharp, whatever you want to call it)
.RB (\*(lq # \*(rq)
is considered to be a comment and is ignored completely.
.SH DETAILS
.LP
The mapper client's configuration parameters are organized into the
following sections:
.SS [cache]
.LP
These values control how map data is cached locally by the client.
.TP
.BI db_base= path
Housekeeping data are kept in a tree of subdirectories starting with
.I path
at the root.
[Default:
.BR ~/.MagicMapper/maps ]
.TP
.BI location= path
The cached map data will be stored in a tree of subdirectories starting with
.I path
at the root.
[Default: 
.BR ~/.MagicMapper/cache ]
.TP
.BI recheck_age= sec
The number of seconds after which the client will check the map server to see if
the map data have been updated.
[Default: 259200 (3 days)]
.SS [connection]
.LP
These settings control the network communications parameters used by the mapper
client:
.TP
.BI local_hostanme= host
Open a local proxy service port on the network insterface named
.IR host ,
to which a separate MUD client may connect to play the MUD while the mapper
only manages the displayed on-screen map.
[Default:
.BR localhost ]
.TP
.BI local_port= port
The TCP/IP port number for the local proxy.
[Default: 2222]
.TP
.BI remote_hostanme= host
Connect to the remote MUD game on the named
.IR host .
[Default:
.BR rag.com ]
.TP
.BI remote_port= port
The TCP/IP port number for the remote MUD game.
[Default: 2222]
.SS [preview]
.LP
These parameters affect how the wizard's map preview tool operates:
.TP
.BI image_dir= path
Local directory where auxiliary image files are to be found for the
purpose of previews (in production, they'll be installed with a production
ID and URL).
[Default:
.BR ~/.MagicMapper/mapimages ]
.TP
.BI location_delay= sec
The number of seconds to pause between displaying each room on the map
while previewing rendering and location indicators.  This is a number of 
seconds, but may be a real number.
[Default: 1.0]
.SS [rendering]
.LP
These parameters control the details of how map images are actually drawn on the
displayed map window:
.BI bezier_points= n
When drawing Bezier curves, a larger value of
.I n
increases the smoothness of the curve.
[Default: 20]
.BI 



.SS [server]
.LP
These parameters control how the client finds the map data server:
.TP
.BI base_url= url
The initial part of the URL from which map data content will be retrieved.
[Default:
.BR https://www.rag.com/magicmap ]
.SH VERSION
.LP
This document describes the configuration file format
used by the version 6 magic mapper.
.SH HISTORY
.LP
This file appeared starting in mapper version 6.0.
.SH COPYRIGHT
.LP
.SH AUTHOR
.LP
Steve Willoughby, support@rag.com
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR magicmap (6).
.SH BUGS
