.TH MAGICMAP 5 "Magic Mapper" "Ragnarok MUD"
'\"
'\" RAGNAROK MAGIC MAPPER DOCUMENTATION: SOURCE FILE FORMAT
'\" $Header$
'\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2010 by Steven L. Willoughby, Aloha, Oregon, USA.
.\" All Rights Reserved.  Licensed under the Open Software License
.\" version 3.0.  See http://www.opensource.org/licenses/osl-3.0.php
'\" for details.
'\"
'\" Based on earlier code from the Ragnarok MudShell (MSH) client,
'\" Copyright (c) 1993, 2000, 2001, 2002, 2003 by Steven L. Willoughby,
'\" Aloha, Oregon, USA.  All Rights Reserved.  MSH is licensed under
'\" the terms of the GNU General Public License (GPL) version 2.
'\"
'\" This product is provided for educational, experimental or personal
'\" interest use, in accordance with the terms and conditions of the
'\" aforementioned license agreement, ON AN "AS IS" BASIS AND WITHOUT
'\" WARRANTY, EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION,
'\" THE WARRANTIES OF NON-INFRINGEMENT, MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A
'\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY OF THE ORIGINAL
'\" WORK IS WITH YOU.  (See the license agreement for full details,
'\" including disclaimer of warranty and limitation of liability.)
'\"
'\" Under no curcumstances is this product intended to be used where the
'\" safety of any person, animal, or property depends upon, or is at
'\" risk of any kind from, the correct operation of this software.
'\"
.SH NAME
Magic Map Source File Summary
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
Each location (commonly referred to as \*(lqrooms\*(rq regardless of
what actual type of location they describe) is drawn onto the magic map
by describing its appearance in a source file, the format of which is
summarized in this document.
.LP
The map definition for a single room whose game object source file
is named
.IB name .c
would be in a separate file named
.IB name .map
in the same directory.  Alternatively, all the rooms in an entire realm
may be placed in a single map file named
.B realm.map
in the root directory of the realm (typically, the home directory of
the wizard who authored the realm).
.LP
This document is intended as a quick reference for map creators who are
familiar with how to create maps but just need a brief reminder.  A full
explanation and tutorial with examples can be found on the Ragnarok website
at
.BR "http://www.rag.com/tech/build/MagicMap" .
New creators should read that document first.
.SS "File Layout"
.LP
The map source file is entirely in plain, printable 7-bit ASCII text
where each line is in the format:
.LP
.nf
.na
.RS
.IB field_type : " value"
.RE
.ad
.fi
.LP
If more than one line is needed for the
.IR value ,
each subsequent line is indented with spaces and/or tabs.  Therefore, the
.I field_type
must be the very first thing on its line of the file.
.LP
The first field of each record describing a location
.I must
be
.BR room .
All other fields for that room may appear in any order.  Unless otherwise
specified, multiple occurrences of a
.I field_type
are not allowed in the same room.
.LP
The
.IR field_type s
recognized are:
.TP
.B room
Begins a new room definition.  The
.I value
is the unique identifier for this room.  This must be the full pathname of
the room object without 
.RB \*(lq .c \*(rq
suffix (e.g., 
.RB \*(lq /players/wizname/r/myroom \*(rq)
or\(emin the case of a \*(lqfake\*(rq room referenced in a
.B also
field somewhere else\(ema guaranteed-unique name such as
.RB \*(lq /players/wizname/__connector__12 \*(rq
which won't ever be confused with a real room anywhere in the
game.  (These are used for locations like inter-realm connectors
which must appear on multiple pages which is impossible for a
single actual room.)
.TP
.B name
The player-visible name for this location.  Clients may choose to show this
to players. 
.I "(optional field)"
.TP
.B page
The page number of the magic map where this location should appear.
.TP
.B realm
The title of the realm.  This only needs to appear in one room within
that realm, per page of the magic map.  If it appears in more than one,
they need to have identical values.
.TP
.B orient
The page's orientation.  If the
.I value
contains the letters
.RB \*(lq land ,\*(rq
the page containing this location will be turned landscape.  Otherwise,
portrait orientation will be used by default.
.I "(optional field)"
.TP
.B map
The
.I value
of this field is the actual definition of the map's image at this location.
The \*(lqMap Object Elements\*(rq section below summarizes what can go in
this field.
.TP
.B also
The
.I value
is a list of one or more other rooms (one per line) which should always be
included on the player's map any time this room is added to it.
.I "(optional field)"
.TP
.B bg
The
.I value
of this field contains map elements just like the
.B map
field, but these are added to the page's background which is unconditionally
drawn (whether the room itself is on the map yet or not) underneath the 
rooms.
.SS "Comments"
.LP
Any line beginning with a pound sign
.RB (\*(lq # \*(rq)
is a comment and is ignored completely.
.SS "Map Object Elements"
.LP
The
.B map
and
.B bg
fields describe the graphic objects, or \*(lqelements,\*(rq which 
are drawn onto the map page.  These consist of one or more of the following 
sequences of command words and their arguments, all of which are separated
from one another by spaces, tabs, and/or newlines.
.LP
Although these resemble PostScript commands, that is merely an artifact
left over from the days when the Magic Map was actually implemented in
PostScript.  Only those commands listed here may be included in a map
description.
.LP
Coordinates and lengths are in units of 1/72 inch and range from 30\(en550 in the 
.I x
axis, and 30\(en670 in the
.I y
axis.  (For landscape-oriented pages, these ranges are reversed between
.I x
and
.IR y .)
.LP
String parameters are, as in PostScript, enclosed in parentheses
.RB \*(lq ( \*(rq
and
.RB \*(lq ) ,\*(rq
so any parenthesis characters you want included in the string text need
to be escaped with backslashes:
.LP
.RS
.B "(A string \e(as an example\e) with parens)"
.RE
.LP
Strings may also include special characters encoded using the following
numeric codes:
.RS
.TP
.B \e242
Cent sign
.TP
.B \e247
Section mark
.TP
.B \e252
Open quotes
.TP
.B \e253
Open angle quotes
.TP
.B \e261
En-dash (\*(lq\(en\*(rq)
.TP
.B \e262
Dagger
.TP
.B \e263
Double dagger
.TP
.B \e266
Paragraph mark
.TP
.B \e267
Bullet
.TP
.B \e272
Close quotes
.TP
.B \e273
Close angle quotes
.TP
.B \e320
Em-dash (\*(lq\(em\*(rq)
.TP
.B \e341
AE ligature
.TP
.B \e361
ae ligature
.RE
.TP
.BI ( title1 )( title2 ) " x y w h \fR[\fPoptions\fR]\fP " room
Draw a room of width
.I w
and height
.I h
with bottom-left corner at coordinates
.RI ( x , y ).
The single keyword
.B std
may be used in place of the
.I w
and
.I h
parameters, in which case a standard 50\(mu20 room is drawn.  The room is
titled with
.I title1
and
.I title2
(if only one title is needed, leave
.I title2
blank, as:
.RB \*(lq () \*(rq).
The 
.I options
which may be given include:
.RS
.TP
.B dark
The room is naturally dark.
.TP
.B outdoor
The room is an outdoor location.
.TP
.B proto
This is a future area or off-page effigy.
.RE
.TP
.IB \fR[\fPlength " passageLength\fR]\fP " direction " \fR[\fP" options "\fR]\fP passage"
Defines a passage out from the immediately-previously-defined room.  Directions
must be one of:
.BR north ,
.BR south ,
.BR east ,
.BR west ,
.BR northeast ,
.BR northwest ,
.BR southeast ,
or
.BR southwest .
Passages are 20 units long unless specified otherwise using the
.B passageLength
keyword.
The options may include the following:
.RS
.TP
.B in
One-way passage into the room.
.TP
.B out
One-way passage out of the room.
.TP
.B special
Requires some special action before using passage.
.TP
.B offpage
Extends to edge of drawing area (infinite length, essentially).
.RE
.TP
.IB direction \fR[\fPlocked \fR]\fP door
Draws a door at the exit leading the specified direction from the room.  
The
.I direction
has the same values as allowed for passages.
.TP
.BI ( title1 )( title2 ) " x y r \fR[\fPoptions\fR]\fP " round-room
Identical to the
.B room
element, but draws a circular room centered at
.RI ( x , y )
with radius
.IR r .
A standard room size of 30 may be specified by using the keyword
.B stdr
for the
.I r
parameter.
.TP
.BI [ "x1 y1 x2 y2 ... xn yn" ] " \fR[\fPoptions\fR]\fP " mazewall
Draw a wall from
.RI ( x1 , y1 )
to
.RI ( x2 , y2 )
and so on, through each point up to and including
.RB ( xn , yn ).
The 
.I options
are the same as allowed for rooms.
.TP
.BI [ "x1 y1 x2 y2 ... xn yn" ] " \fR[\fPoptions\fR]\fP " mazearea
Like
.BR mazewall ,
but instead of drawing the wall, fill in the polygon bounded by the points
with a solid color as a room normally would be given the
.IR options .
.TP
.BI [ "x1 y1 x2 y2 ... xn yn" ] " \fR[\fPoptions\fR]\fP " mazeroom
This has the effect of both
.B mazearea
and 
.BR mazewall .
.TP
.BI % ...
Everything from a percent sign to the end of its line in the file is a
comment and is ignored.  This allows parts of a map definition to be 
commented out as necessary.
.TP
.B np
Begin a new drawing path.
.TP
.IB "x y " mv|moveto
Move to a new drawing point at
.RI ( x , y ).
.TP
.IB "x y " ln|lineto
Draw a line from the previous point to
.RI ( x , y ).
.TP
.IB "dx dy " rmv|rmoveto
Move 
.I dx
units right and
.I dy
units up from the current location.
.TP
.IB "dx dy " rln|rlineto
Draw a line from the previous point to
a point 
.I dx
units to the right and
.I dy
units up.
.TP
.IB "x y r start end " arc
Draw an arc centered at
.RI ( x , y )
with radius 
.IR r ,
from angle
.I start
to angle
.IR end .
.TP
.B cp
Close the path, drawing back to the starting point.
.TP
.B stroke
Draw a line through the path just defined.
.TP
.B fill
Fill in the area defined by the path just defined.
.TP
.IB "x1 y1 x2 y2 " arrow
Draw an arrow from point
.RI ( x1 , y1 )
to 
.RI ( x2 , y2 )
with the arrowhead pointing at the latter point.
.TP
.IB "x y w h " box
Draw a simple box with lower-left corner at
.RI ( x , y ),
width
.I w
and height
.IR h .
.TP
.IB "x y w h g " shadebox
Like
.B box
except the area described by the box is filled in with a shade of
gray indicated by
.I g
where 0.0 indicates solid black and 1.0 is solid white.
.TP
.IB "x y w h r g b " colorbox
Like
.B shadebox
but instead of a shade of gray, a specific color is specified as the mixture
of red, green, and blue where 0.0 means no amount of that color and 1.0 is
full saturation.
.TP
.BI ( text ) " x y " boxnum
Put
.I text
in a small (20pt) square box with lower-left corner at
.RI ( x , y ).
.TP
.B bk
Change the drawing color to black.
.TP
.B gr
Change the drawing color to 50% gray.
.TP
.B wh
Change the drawing color to white.
.TP
.IB gr " sg"
Change the drawing color to the level of gray
specified by
.I gr
with 0.0 being black and 1.0 being white.
.TP
.IB "r g b " color
Change the drawing color to the specified mixture of red, green, and blue.
.TP
.B txtf
Set normal text font.
.TP
.B rmnf
Set small roman text font.
.TP
.IB n " bf"
Set bold font of size
.IR n .
.TP
.IB n " it"
Set Italic font of size
.IR n .
.TP
.IB n " tt"
Set typewriter font of size
.IR n .
.TP
.IB n " sl"
Set slanted (oblique) font of size
.IR n .
.TP
.IB n " ss"
Set sans serif font of size
.IR n .
.TP
.BI ( text ) " show"
Draw
.I text
at the current location (use
.B mv
to set this location first).
.TP
.IB "x y r " dotmark
Draw a small dot of radius
.I r
at location
.RI ( x , y ).
.TP
.IB w " lw"
Set the line width to
.I w
points.
.TP
.BI [ "dashlen gaplen..." ] " offset " sd
Define the dash pattern for lines.
.TP
.B "[] 0 sd"
Reset to solid line drawing mode.
.TP
.IB "x y " Tree1|Tree2|Clump1|Clump2
Draw a small tree or clump of trees near
.RI ( x , y ).
.TP
.IB "x y w h " ( id ") GraphicImage"
Draw a graphic image with the specified unique
.I id
with lower-left corner at
.RI ( x , y ),
scaled to width
.I w
and height
.IR h .
.SH EXAMPLE
.LP
This file describes the map entry corresponding to a room stored in
.BR /players/fizban/room/maze128.c .
The map entry itself would either be in a file called
.B /players/fizban/room/maze128.map
or could appear along with other fields in the file
.BR /players/fizban/realm.map .
.LP
.RS
.na
.nf
.B "room:  /players/fizban/room/maze128"
.B "name:  Maze Room #128"
.B "page:  64"
.B "realm: Aardvark's Museum: Ancient Egypt Exhibit"
.B "map:   (Maze Room)(#128) 100 100 std room"
.B "       north passage"
.B "       southeast passage"
.B "       south special passage"
.fi
.ad
.RE
.SH VERSION
.LP
The map format described here corresponds to the V6 (version 6) Magic Map.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP
.BR magicmap (6).
.BR viewmap (6),
