.TH MAGICMAPPER 6 "Magic Mapper" "Ragnarok MUD"
'\"
'\" RAGNAROK MAGIC MAPPER DOCUMENTATION:
'\" $Header$
'\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2020 by Steven L. Willoughby, Aloha, Oregon, USA.
.\" All Rights Reserved.  
'\" Licensed under the terms of the BSD 3-clause license.
'\"
'\" Based on earlier code from the Ragnarok MudShell (MSH) client,
'\" Copyright (c) 1993, 2000, 2001, 2002, 2003, 2010, 2012, 2018 by 
'\" Steven L. Willoughby, Aloha, Oregon, USA.  All Rights Reserved.  
'\"
'\" This product is provided for educational, experimental or personal
'\" interest use, in accordance with the terms and conditions of the
'\" aforementioned license agreement, ON AN "AS IS" BASIS AND WITHOUT
'\" WARRANTY, EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION,
'\" THE WARRANTIES OF NON-INFRINGEMENT, MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A
'\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY OF THE ORIGINAL
'\" WORK IS WITH YOU.  (See the license agreement for full details,
'\" including disclaimer of warranty and limitation of liability.)
'\"
'\" Under no curcumstances is this product intended to be used where the
'\" safety of any person, animal, or property depends upon, or is at
'\" risk of any kind from, the correct operation of this software.
'\"
.SH NAME
magicmapper \- Real-time map display for MUD games
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B magicmapper
.RB [ \-ChlVv ]
.RB [ \-H
.IR hostname ]
.RB [ \-P
.IR port ]
.RB [ \-p
.IR proxyport ]
.RB [ \-S
.RI [ version\fB:\fP ][ username [\fB:\fP password ]\fB@\fP] hostname\fB:\fPport ]
.RB [ \-w
.IR url ]
.LP
.B magicmapper
.RB [ \-\-copyright ]
.RB [ \-\-help ]
.RB [ \-\-host
.IR hostname ]
.RB [ \-\-local ]
.RB [ \-\-proxy
.IR proxyport ]
.RB [ \-\-port
.IR port ]
.RB [ \-\-socks
.RI [ version\fB:\fP ][ username [\fB:\fP password ]\fB@\fP] hostname\fB:\fPport ]
.RB [ \-\-verbose ]
.RB [ \-\-version ]
.RB [ \-\-web\-base 
.IR url ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The Ragnarok MUD has a long-standing history (since the early 1990s) of hosting a built-in
mapping utility called the \*(lqmagic map\*(rq which shows the locations each player has
explored so far. The
.B magicmapper
program documented here provides a real-time map display during game play. Previous
versions required the user to periodically download a PostScript or PDF file of their
map to print or view indepentently.
.LP
The
.B magicmapper
provides two modes of operation. The default allows the player to use any MUD client
of their choice, including
.BR telnet (1),
using
.B magicmapper
as a proxy between the MUD client and the MUD server. In this mode,
.B magicmapper
intercepts map content, displaying it in a window it controls, while the rest of the
MUD session is passed on to the MUD client.
.LP
Alternatively,
.B magicmapper
may be used in \*(lqlocal\*(rq mode, where it provides its own built-in MUD client rather than an external one,
so the
.B magicmapper
program is the only software needed to play the game.
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
The following options may be specified at the command-line to control the
operation of the program.  In cases where a short form of the option
is provided (e.g., 
.RB \*(lq \-v ,\*(rq)
it may be combined with other short options in a single argument (i.e.,
either
.RB \*(lq \-vl \*(rq
or
.RB \*(lq \-v
.BR \-l \*(rq
are equivalent), and any value which is supposed to be given for the
option follows it as a separate argument
.RB (\*(lq \-p
.BR 2222 \*(rq)
or as the remaining text after the option
.RB (\*(lq \-p2222 \*(rq).
In the case of long option names, they must be given separately from 
each other, although values may be given as, for example,
.RB \*(lq \-\-port=2222 \*(rq
or
.RB \*(lq \-\-port
.BR 2222 \*(rq.
.TP
.BR \-C " / " \-\-copyright
Print the copyright and licensing information and exit.
.TP
.BR \-H " / " \-\-host=\fIhostname\fP
Connect to the MUD server at the given
.IR hostname .
The default is
.BR rag.com .
.TP
.BR \-h " / " \-\-help
Print a short synopsis of the program usage and exit.
.TP
.BR \-l " / " \-\-local
Use the local built-in MUD client rather than acting as proxy for a separate MUD client program.
.TP
.BR \-P " / " \-\-port=\fIport\fP
Connect to the MUD server on the specified TCP
.IR port .
The default is
.BR 2222 .
.TP
.BR \-p " / " \-\-proxy=\fIport\fP
Open a local TCP port on the specified 
.I port
number, to accept connection from the external MUD client. The default is
.BR 2222 .
.TP
.BI "\-S \fR/\fP \-\-socks=" \fR[\fPversion : \fR][\fPusername\fR[\fP : password\fR]\fP @\fR]\fP hostname : port
Connect through the SOCKS proxy at the given
.I hostname
and
.I port
to make connections with the MUD server and web server. If
.I version
is specified, it indicates the version of the SOCKS protocol in use.
Supported versions are
.BR 4 ,
.BR 4a ,
and
.BR 5 .
Version 5 is assumed by default.
.RS
.LP
If a username and password are required to log in to the SOCKS server,
they may be specified before the
.I hostname
as, for example:
.RS
.LP
.B "\-\-socks=alice@proxy.example.org:1080"
.RE
or
.RS
.B "\-\-socks=alice:mypassword@proxy.example.org:1080"
.RE
.RE
.TP
.BR \-V " / " \-\-version
Print the
.B magicmapper
version number and exit.
.TP
.BR \-v " / " \-\-verbose
Add extra debugging information on the program's standard output. Specifying this option
multiple times increases the verbosity.
.TP
.BR \-w " / " \-\-web\-base=\fIurl\fP
Fetch map and image content from the MUD's web server. The URL for this content starts with
the specified
.I url
followed by the specific file structure required by the map content being fetched.
The default is
.BR https://www.rag.com/magicmap .
.SH "PROXY OPERATION"
.LP
The default mode of operation for
.B magicmapper
is to display maps in a side window while you use a separate MUD client program
to play the actual game. If you invoke
.RS
.LP
.B "$ magicmapper"
.RE
.LP
with no other options, it will assume it is connecting an external client program to the Ragnarok MUD
system. Configure your MUD client (telnet, zmud, whatever) to connect to port 2222 of
.B localhost
(127.0.0.1) and start it
.I after
you start
.BR magicmapper .
.LP
If you wish to use this with a different server, or use a different local port to connect
your MUD client to, you may arrange this by giving the options documented above.
.SH "LOCAL OPERATION"
.LP
If you wish to use the local MUD client built in to
.BR magicmapper ,
just invoke it with the 
.B \-\-local
option:
.RS
.LP
.B "$ magicmapper \-\-local"
.RE
.LP
This will open a split-screen window where you can type commands at the bottom while the MUD
game text continuously scrolls in the upper window.
.SH "INTERACTIVE USAGE"
.LP
Once you start
.B magicmapper
and are connected to the MUD through it, the map window will track your
movement in the game world, adding locations to the graphical map as you
visit them. The map is hand-crafted by the wizards who created the MUD realms,
so the appearance will vary from realm to realm.
.LP
While in the game, you can control your magicmap with the following 
commands:
.TP
.B "> magicmap start"
Start tracking your movements on the map. Your current location will appear
highlighted at the intersection of cross-hairs.
.TP
.B "> magicmap stop"
Stop tracking your movements. Your on-screen map won't update anymore as you
explore new areas, but your in-game magicmap will continue to remember all the
places you go, so a future
.B sync
command will catch up your local graphical display to include any new areas
you visited while your map wasn't actively tracking your movements.
.TP
.B "> magicmap toggle"
This turns on or off the map's tracking (as with the
.B start
and
.B stop
commands), whichever is appropriate to change the tracking from whatever its
setting is now.
.TP
.B "> magicmap sync"
This commands sends a list of all the areas you've ever visited to your local
map client. This is helpful the first time you use the
.B magicmapper
program on a computer, or if you explored more areas with the location tracking
turned off. This may take a few minutes to complete. Game play will continue
while the map is updating in the background.
.TP
.B "> magicmap query"
Reports to you whether or not the map is tracking your movements now.
.TP
.B "> examine magicmap"
Describes the map in game-universe terms, including the number of locations
your character has visited so far.
.LP
While viewing the map, you can hold down the left mouse button and drag the
map canvas around to scroll the image, or use the scrollbars on the edges of the
display window.
.LP
The 
.I "view > zoom"
menu options and keys
.IR ^+ ,
.IR ^\- ,
and
.IR ^0
can be used to zoom in, zoom out, and restore original zoom level.
.LP
The map will automatically display the map page containing your current
location, but you can manually flip forward and back in the map's pages
by pressing the
.I PgUp
and 
.I PgDn
keys.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP
.BR magicmap (5).
.SH VERSION
.LP
This document describes version 6 (V6) of the Ragnarok Magic Map system.  The
version numbers of the various public tools are kept in sync with this major
revision number.  The tool version referenced here is 6.0.
.SH HISTORY
.LP
The
.B magicmapper
command first appeared in version 6.0.
.SH AUTHORS
.LP
The magicmapper was originally created by Klive of Ragnarok, then subsequently
rewritten and enhanced by Fizban, with help from Polyone.
.SH NOTES
.LP
*Names of third-party products are the property of, and may be trademarks or registered
trademarks belonging to, their respective owners.
